The focus is more on techs as a whole.

*****

Tech Only

*****

Rule T1 - CYA

Rule T1A - Always have someone else to blame it on.

Rule T1B - This is the most important rule.

Rule T2 - Never lie to another tech.

Rule T2A - Unless that tech is the person you're about to blame. See Rules T1A and T25.

Rule T2B - Sometimes you will need to lie in order to deal with things like warranty repairs or getting ISPs to do the right thing.

Rule T3 - Never assume anything.

Rule T3A - Does the issue even exist?

Rule T3B - Is it even plugged in?

Rule T4 - Don't expect your boss or coworkers or users to understand just what it is that you do.

Rule T4A - Even if they are a tech.

Rule T5 - Always have a small list of phrases to get users to do what you are trying to get them to do.

Rule T5A - Never share these with non-techs.

Rule T6 - Don't let people know you are a tech. They are likely to ask for free tech support.

Rule T6A - Never, EVER, give out personal contact information.

Rule T7 - Sometimes, you will be the one who is wrong.

Rule T8 - You will really screw up eventually and it is going to be a doozy.

Rule T9 - Expect equipment to be placed in bad locations.

Rule T10 - It's always the printer|DNS|server|browser|connection. It's never the printer|DNS|server|browser|connection.

Rule T10A - It's always the printer. Printers are evil.

Rule T10B - Printers are evil because of users.

Rule T11 - Just because it worked yesterday does not mean that it will today.

Rule T11A - Just because it didn't work yesterday does not mean that it won't today.

Rule T11B - Things only work when you are paying attention to them.

Rule T12 - Updates will be both solutions and banes, usually at the same time.

Rule T13 - Sometimes, you have to nuke everything.

Rule T14 - Backup following the Rule of Three. A backup, a copy of the backup, and a copy of the copy. Test them.

Rule T14A - Try to have at least one more backup going at one time in case one has issues.

Rule T14B - There is no backup. If there is a backup, it is either corrupt or years out of date.

Rule T14C - If you can't restore from it, you don't have a backup.

Rule T15 - Assume that there are inside threats, even inside IT.

Rule T15A - Don't trust your coworkers. They might be using Rule T2A.

Rule T16 - Everyday errors are the most dangerous overall, due to how often they occur.

Rule T17 - Focus on getting things working, then on getting them done right.

Rule T17A - By hook or by crook.

Rule T17B - When things are working right, leave them alone.

Rule T17C - If something starts working, even if you KNOW what you just did shouldn't have fixed it, raise your hands in the air unthreatening-like and slowly back out of the room.

Rule T18 - There's always a relevant xkcd.

Rule T18A - If you can't find a relevant xkcd, it's because you haven't looked hard enough.

Rule T18B - If there is no relevant xkcd, there is always a relevant Dilbert strip.

Rule T18C - If you can't find a relevant xkcd or Dilbert strip, your problem does not exist.

Rule T19 - You and your work will never be appreciated by users since if you did your job right, none of these problems would have happened.

Rule T20 - All IT urban legends are true.

Rule T21 - When you need tech support, the tech support person is likely to be clueless.

Rule T21A - Whenever you have a problem, you will be unable to find a solution until just before the tech you called for help arrives.

Rule T21B - If the tech you called in isn't clueless, then you were and your problem has an obvious solution that you completely missed that they will point out seconds after they arrive.

Rule T21C - If none of these apply, the solution will be something random that will make no sense whatsoever to you or the technician.

Rule T22 - Vendors will tell you that you need to upgrade to the newest version in order to fix things. If you are on the latest version, they will tell you to wait till the next version.

Rule T22A - If the problem remains reproducible on the latest version, they may tell you to downgrade. Even if you just upgraded per Rule T22.

Rule T22B - It's not a bug, it's an undocumented feature.

Rule T23 - If it takes TFTS to turn you paranoid, you likely haven't been in tech support for very long.

Rule T23A - You aren't paranoid. They really are out to get you.

Rule T24 - Every tech has their own set of Rules, even if they don't know it.

Rule T25 - Every tech is also a user.

Rule T26 - Never make changes before going on vacation.

Rule T27 - The more you specialize, the less you will remember about basic desktop functions.

Rule T28 - No technical person reads all of the rules. They will act like they know them until the place catches fire, then complain about incomplete documentation.

Rule T28A - Especially if it was the documentation that went up in flames first.

Rule T29 - Never assume anyone else is smarter than you.

Rule T29A- Never assume you are smarter than anyone else.

Rule T29B - A user's intelligence will always be precisely what is needed for maximum damage.

Rule T30 - Scheduled updates won't.

Rule T30A- Anything scheduled will break things, especially if you are not available.

Rule T31 - Drivers will drive you bonkers. They are an accomplice to *Rule* T10A.

Rule T31A - Drivers are the real threat, not hardware.

Rule T31B - Drivers using hardware [heavy machinery] are also a real threat. Backhoes/diggers have a magnetic attraction to fiber optics and the drivers have an innate ability to find optical fiber. See Link L4.

Rule T32 - Third-Party IT will make configuration overhauls without notifying your company's IT Dept, and then blame your company for problems caused by their configuration mishap.

Rule T33 - No is the answer for every request as long as it's plausible.

Rule T34 - Users will be a lot more cautious if they have to pay upfront. Make sure they pay upfront for as much as you can.

Rule T35 - Treat your job like a role playing game.

Rule T35A - See Link L1.

Rule T35B - See Feedback F5.

Rule T36 - You are incompetent. You just don't know it. At least, that's what your replacement will think.

Rule T36A - You will have to deal with techs who are incompetent.

Rule T36B - Sometimes, you really are incompetent.

Rule T37 - Don't run stuff that you are not supposed to unless *Rules* T17 and T17A apply.

Rule T38 - The Seventy Maxims of Maximally Effective Mercenaries are always applicable.

Rule T38A - Sometimes the applicability of the Maxims is not immediately obvious.

Rule T39 - Use your inner laziness to do the most elegant solution possible.

Rule T40 - Get to know the Dunning-Kruger effect. See *Link* L3.

Rule T41 - Every company has a Production environment. If you're lucky, they have a separate Test environment.

Rule T42 - You might want to consider starting the day with coffee or tea and ending with whiskey or scotch or bourbon or beer...

Rule T43 - You might find people who support you. Reciprocate.

Rule T44 - When a user activates the Swedish Fish rule, they get preferential treatment.

Rule T45 - Make sure your fellow techs agree on what Rules to use.

Rule T46 - Like the military says, never volunteer.

Rule T47 - Some bugs are Heisenbugs; they can only occur if they are not being observed. Users do not count as observers.

Rule T48 - Something will be needed right after you get rid of it.

Rule T48A - Once you replace it, you will no longer need it.

Rule T48B - You will buy something and then find out that what you currently have already has what you needed.

Rule T49 - User managed projects will always fail.

Rule T49A - And they will blame you.

Rule T50 - You will complain about something and then realize that you are the one that is guilty.

Rule T51 - You will find yourself putting out fire after fire without any chance to document anything.

Rule T52 - Cables look just like ropes...

***

Rule T1000 - Buy stock in Boston Dynmanics but sell all of it before 2029.


*****
